.\" The following commands are required for all man pages.
.TH DIS "1" "November 2012" "Dissemination" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dis - command line client to distributed message servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdis\fR \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Interface to dissemination message servers.  Supports searching,
downloading and unpacking messages as well as packaging and uploading
messages. See dis(7) for more information on the distributed
information dissemination system.
.PP
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
One of the following three commands must be supplied.  In every case
the arguments given after the command may be read from the command
line or piped to STDIN.
.PP
.TP
\fBgrep\fR [\fBkey value\fB]...
Search the message server for messages whose \fBkey\fR field matches
\fBvalue\fR, where \fBvalue\fR is a regular expression.
.TP
\fBpull\fR [\fBhash\fR]...
Pull all messages matching the supplied \fBhash\fR(es).  Shortened
hash prefixes may be given in which case all messages matching the
prefix will be returned.  Downloaded messages are unpacked and printed
to STDOUT.
.TP
\fBpush\fR [\fBmessage\fR]... [\fBcontent\fR]
If packaged JSON messages are supplied then upload them to the message
server.  If raw \fBcontent\fR is supplied then package the
\fBcontent\fR using
dis-pack(1)
and upload the resulting message to the message server.  The extra
options available for \fBpush\fR will be passed through to
\fBdis-pack\fR.  The hashes of all uploaded messages will be printed
to STDOUT.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options may be used in combination with any command.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR
host name of the remote message server
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR
port on which the remote message server is listening
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR
print the raw JSON values returned by the server, do not unpack
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-dry-run\fR
print all commands to STDOUT instead of sending to the remote server
.PP
The following options may only be used with the \fBpush\fR command.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sign\fR
Sign the message with GPG.  The user is read from the
\fBDIS_SIGNATORY\fR or \fBGPGKEY\fR environment variables.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-signatory\fR [\fBUSER\fR]
Use the GPG key \fBUSER\fR to sign the message.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-encrypt\fR [\fBUSER\fR]
Encrypt the message with GPG so that only recipient \fBUSER\fR will be
able to decrypt its contents.  This option may be given multiple time
to encrypt a message for decryption by multiple recipients.  Unless
the \fB\-hide\fR option is given, a list of message recipients will be
printed in the publicly visible portion of the message.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-hide\fR
Do not place a recipient list in the unencrypted portion of the
message.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B dis grep content foo|dis pull
.PP
Download all messages whose \fBcontent\fR field matches the regular
expression \fBfoo\fR and print them to STDOUT.
.PP
.B cat /tmp/foo|dis push -s
.PP
Package the contents of \fB/tmp/foo\fR into a message, sign the
messages contents and upload the message to the server printing the
hash of the resulting message to STDOUT.
.PP
.B dis pull -j 4bf26132
.PP
Download the message with hash prefix \fB4bf26132\fR from the message
server and print the entire JSON message representation to STDOUT.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Eric Schulte.
.SH BUGS
Almost certainly.
