.\" man 7 groff_mdoc  Best resource ever
.Dd November 1, 2012
.Dt DIS-SERVER \&1 "Dissemination"
.Os " "
.Sh NAME
.Nm dis-server
.Nd JSON message server running on node.js 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
\fBnpm\fR start dissemination
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
distributes, persists and provides for discovery and download of
messages.  See dis(7) for more information on the distributed
information dissemination system.
.Pp
.Nm
responds to three commands [grep,pull,push] defined below.  Each
command must be accompanied by a single JSON argument and every
response from
.Nm
will similarly be a single JSON element.
.Pp
The behavior of
.Nm
may be extensively customized through two hooks the
\fBpre_save_hook\fR and the \fBpost_save_hook\fR that contain
arbitrary JavaScript functions which are run by
.Nm
on received and on saved messages respectively.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Nm
maintains a list of JSON messages which may have arbitrary fields and
may or may not be signed or encrypted using GPG.  Each message must
include a hash of its contents.
.Nm
provides access to this message database through three commands.  Each
connection to
.Nm
must consist of a string of text starting with one of these commands,
followed by a valid JSON object holding the arguments to the command
as described below and terminated by a newline character.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".." -compact
.It Cm grep Ar object
return the hash of all messages in the database whose values
corresponding to each key in
.Ar object
match the corresponding value in
.Ar object
interpreted as a regular expression.
.Pp
.It Cm pull Ar array
every element of
.Ar array
should be a string hash prefix.  Return a JSON array containing every
message whose hash matches one of the prefixes in the
.Ar array
argument.
.Pp
.It Cm push Ar array
accepts an array of messages each of which must be a JSON object
including a \fBhash\fR key.  Returns a JSON array of the hashes of
those messages saved to the database.
.El
.Pp
.Sh HOOKS
Each hook should be an array of JavaScript functions.  Hooks are
specified in the configuration file which defaults to \fBconfig.js\fR.
This file may contain arbitrary JavaScript.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".." -compact
.It Cm \fBpre_save_hook\fR
The functions in this hook will be called in order every time a
\fBpush\fR command is received.  The first function will take the
message array supplied with the \fBpush\fR command.  Every subsequent
function will take the output of the previous command is its input.
The return value of the final function in this hook will be saved to
the message database.  This hook may be used to verify, pre-process,
and reject messages from persistence in the server.
.Pp
For example.  The \fBverify_signatures\fR function which is
distributed as part of
.Nm
may be added to the \fBpre_save_hook\fR by adding the following line
to the configuration file.
.Pp
\& pre_save_hook.push(verify_signatures);
.Pp
This will have the effect of only saving those messages whose
signatures may be validated by the local GPG instance.
.Pp
.It \fBpost_save_hook\fR
The functions in this hook will also be called in order every time a
\fBpush\fR command is received.  Each function in this hook will take
two arguments, first an array of all saved messages and second the
socket from which the push command submitting the messages was
received.  The return values of these messages are discarded.
.Pp
For example.  The \fBshare\fR function which is distributed as part of
.Nm
may be added to the \fBpost_save_hook\fR by adding the following lines
to the configuration file.
.Pp
\& sync_servers.push({"host":"foo.com", "port":"4444"});
.br
\& post_save_hook.push(share);
.Pp
This will have the effect of pushing all saved messages along to the
server running on \fBfoo.com\fR listening on port \fB4444\fR.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Eric Schulte.
.Pp
.Sh BUGS
Almost certainly.
